Implement planned topic: 0036-openai-agents-sdk (#223)
temporalio/skill-temporal-developer: references/python/integrations/openai-agents-sdk.md

    return Weather(city=city, temperature_range="14-20C", conditions="Sunny with wind.")

@workflow.defn
class WeatherAgent:
    @workflow.run
    async def run(self, question: str) -> str:
        agent = Agent(
            name="Weather Assistant",
            instructions="You are a helpful weather agent.",
            tools=[
                openai_agents.workflow.activity_as_tool(
                    get_weather,
                    start_to_close_timeout=timedelta(seconds=10),
                ),
            ],
        )
        result = await Runner.run(starting_agent=agent, input=question)
        return result.final_output
```

Activity-as-tool sees a **read-only copy** of the OpenAI Agents context — mutations from the tool body are not visible to other tools or to the agent.

### `@function_tool` — for deterministic, in-process tools

For pure computations or tools that mutate agent state, use the upstream `@function_tool` decorator. The tool runs as part of the workflow, so it must obey workflow determinism rules.

```python
from temporalio import workflow
from agents import Agent, Runner, function_tool

@function_tool
def calculate_circle_area(radius: float) -> float:

>     import math

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

>     return math.pi * radius ** 2

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    return 3.14 * radius ** 2
```

# Temporal OpenAI Agents SDK Integration (Python)

## Overview

> The Temporal Python SDK ships an in-tree integration that runs [OpenAI Agents SDK](https://github.com/openai/openai-agents-python) agents as durable Temporal Workflows. Model calls execute as Temporal Activities; tools can be Activities, Nexus stubs, or workflow-resident `@function_tool`s; MCP servers, sandbox backends, and OpenTelemetry export are layered on top.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The Temporal Python SDK ships a contrib module that runs [OpenAI Agents SDK](https://github.com/openai/openai-agents-python) agents as durable Temporal Workflows. Model calls execute as Temporal Activities; tools can be Activities, Nexus stubs, or workflow-resident `@function_tool`s; MCP servers, sandbox backends, and OpenTelemetry export are layered on top.
```

The integration is delivered as a Temporal plugin: `OpenAIAgentsPlugin` from `temporalio.contrib.openai_agents`, registered on both the client and the worker via `plugins=[...]`.

> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

# Temporal OpenAI Agents SDK Integration (Python)

## Overview

> The Temporal Python SDK ships an in-tree integration that runs [OpenAI Agents SDK](https://github.com/openai/openai-agents-python) agents as durable Temporal Workflows. Model calls execute as Temporal Activities; tools can be Activities, Nexus stubs, or workflow-resident `@function_tool`s; MCP servers, sandbox backends, and OpenTelemetry export are layered on top.

Reviewer 2: > "in-tree"

I'm not familiar with this terminology. Should this just say something like "The Temporal Python SDK ships a contrib module..."

> The Temporal Python SDK ships an in-tree integration that runs [OpenAI Agents SDK](https://github.com/openai/openai-agents-python) agents as durable Temporal Workflows. Model calls execute as Temporal Activities; tools can be Activities, Nexus stubs, or workflow-resident `@function_tool`s; MCP servers, sandbox backends, and OpenTelemetry export are layered on top.

Reviewer 2: Suggest moving up the below mention that this is the canonical guide

```suggestion
The Temporal Python SDK ships an in-tree integration that runs [OpenAI Agents SDK](https://github.com/openai/openai-agents-python) agents as durable Temporal Workflows. The Temporal documentation index for Python integrations points to this README as the canonical guide.

Model calls execute as Temporal Activities; tools can be Activities, Nexus stubs, or workflow-resident `@function_tool`s; MCP servers, sandbox backends, and OpenTelemetry export are layered on top.
```

> The integration is delivered as a [Temporal plugin](../../../docs/develop/plugins-guide.mdx): `OpenAIAgentsPlugin` from `temporalio.contrib.openai_agents`, registered on both the client and the worker via `plugins=[...]`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The integration is delivered as a Temporal plugin: `OpenAIAgentsPlugin` from `temporalio.contrib.openai_agents`, registered on both the client and the worker via `plugins=[...]`.
```

Link is bad, and we don't even really need to link for this.

> The Temporal documentation index for Python integrations points to this README as the canonical guide.

Reviewer 2: I think this line should prob be moved up to the first paragraph (see prior suggestion)

```suggestion
```

Reviewer: I don't think this line is needed at all.

```suggestion
```

For language-agnostic AI/LLM patterns (centralized retries, multi-agent orchestration, when to put a tool in an Activity vs. the workflow) see `references/core/ai-patterns.md`. For Python-side LLM patterns that apply when **not** using this plugin (Pydantic data converter, generic LLM activity, `max_retries=0` on the raw OpenAI client) see `references/python/ai-patterns.md` — note that the plugin already configures Pydantic serialization for you.

## Install

> The integration lives at `temporalio.contrib.openai_agents`; no extra package install is required beyond `temporalio` and the upstream OpenAI Agents SDK (`agents`).

Reviewer 2: I think it's likely better to explain the positive rather than use a negative:

```suggestion
The integration lives at `temporalio.contrib.openai_agents`; use it by installing `temporalio[openai-agents]` to get the extra OpenAI Agents SDK dep.
```

The `openai-agents` extra is provided in our [pyproject.toml](https://github.com/temporalio/sdk-python/blob/25059fa4eab88efe51ec2f2560a999144d65f33e/pyproject.toml#L31) and also can see it on [our PyPi page](https://pypi.org/project/temporalio/#:~:text=Requires%3A%20Python%20%3E%3D3.10-,Provides%2DExtra,-%3A%20aioboto3%20%2C) (not sure if you think either are worth linking here)

        ),
    ],
)
```

The 30-second timeout above is the example from the README, not a documented default. Pick a value sized to your model and prompt.

With the plugin registered, four things happen automatically:

- Pydantic types serialize correctly across activity boundaries.
- OpenAI Agents tracing context propagates between workflow and activity.
- The model-invocation activity is registered with every Temporal worker.
- The OpenAI Agents SDK is reconfigured so its model calls run as Temporal activities.

## A durable agent

Inside a workflow, write standard OpenAI Agents SDK code — `Agent`, `Runner.run`. The plugin reroutes model calls through an Activity, so the agent loop is durable.

```python
from temporalio import workflow
from agents import Agent, Runner

@workflow.defn
class HelloWorldAgent:
    @workflow.run
    async def run(self, prompt: str) -> str:
        agent = Agent(
            name="Assistant",
            instructions="You only respond in haikus.",
        )
        result = await Runner.run(agent, input=prompt)
        return result.final_output
```

Register the workflow with a `Worker` exactly like any other Temporal workflow.

## Tools

> Two ways to wire a tool into an agent. Choose by the tool's side effects.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Two ways to wire a tool into an agent. Choose based on whether the tool has side effects.
```

```python
from dataclasses import dataclass
from datetime import timedelta
from temporalio import activity, workflow
from temporalio.contrib import openai_agents
from agents import Agent, Runner

@dataclass
class Weather:
    city: str
    temperature_range: str
    conditions: str

@activity.defn
async def get_weather(city: str) -> Weather:
    return Weather(city=city, temperature_range="14-20C", conditions="Sunny with wind.")

@workflow.defn
class WeatherAgent:
    @workflow.run
    async def run(self, question: str) -> str:
        agent = Agent(
            name="Weather Assistant",
            instructions="You are a helpful weather agent.",
            tools=[
                openai_agents.workflow.activity_as_tool(
                    get_weather,
                    start_to_close_timeout=timedelta(seconds=10),
                ),
            ],
        )
        result = await Runner.run(starting_agent=agent, input=question)
        return result.final_output
```

> Activity-as-tool sees a **read-only copy** of the OpenAI Agents context — mutations from the tool body are not visible to other tools or to the agent.

Reviewer 2: I know that even the actual README doesn't have an example of a tool that accepts context, but it seems worth showing the LLM a bit more what you're referring to with "OpenAI Agents context". Esp. since "context" is super overloaded with the "context history". E.g. [this example](https://openai.github.io/openai-agents-python/tools/#:~:text=name_override%3D%22fetch_data%22) in their docs (maybe just link to their docs? or at least mention the name of the underlying type from the agents sdk)

Reviewer: I agree, will add.

Reviewer: Added info about run context

### `@function_tool` — for deterministic, in-process tools

> For pure computations or tools that mutate agent state, use the upstream `@function_tool` decorator. The tool runs on the workflow thread, so it must obey workflow determinism rules.

Reviewer 2: I don't think the determinism is hinging on which thread the code's running on so maybe this would mislead the LLM to think nondeterminism is addressed with some multithreading solution.

```suggestion
For pure computations or tools that mutate agent state, use the upstream `@function_tool` decorator. The tool runs as part of the workflow, so it must obey workflow determinism rules.
```

```python
from temporalio import workflow
from agents import Agent, Runner, function_tool

@function_tool
def calculate_circle_area(radius: float) -> float:

>     import math

Reviewer 2: idk how much we want to recommend imports in func bodies. Maybe simpler to just drop the math import entirely and use `3.14` to simplify

    return math.pi * radius ** 2

@workflow.defn
class MathAssistantAgent:
    @workflow.run
    async def run(self, message: str) -> str:
        agent = Agent(
            name="Math Assistant",
            instructions="You are a helpful math assistant.",
            tools=[calculate_circle_area],
        )
        result = await Runner.run(agent, input=message)
        return result.final_output
```

`@function_tool` bodies can read **and update** OpenAI Agents context. They can also call Temporal activities themselves if they need I/O at runtime.

> **Don't put I/O, system clock, or random sources inside a `@function_tool` body.** Make it an `@activity.defn` and wrap with `activity_as_tool` instead.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
**Don't put I/O, system clock, or sources of randomness inside a `@function_tool` body.** Make it an `@activity.defn` and wrap with `activity_as_tool` instead.
```

                start_to_close_timeout=timedelta(seconds=60)
            ),
            mcp_server_providers=[filesystem_server],
        ),
    ],
)
```

### Stateless MCP — workflow usage

Reference the server inside a workflow with `openai_agents.workflow.stateless_mcp_server("Name")`. The string must match the `name=` argument on the MCP server instance the factory creates.

```python
from temporalio import workflow
from temporalio.contrib import openai_agents
from agents import Agent, Runner

@workflow.defn
class FileSystemWorkflow:
    @workflow.run
    async def run(self, query: str) -> str:
        server = openai_agents.workflow.stateless_mcp_server("FileSystemServer")
        agent = Agent(
            name="File Assistant",
            instructions="Use the filesystem tools to read files and answer questions.",
            mcp_servers=[server],
        )
        result = await Runner.run(agent, input=query)
        return result.final_output
```

### Hosted MCP

For network-accessible MCP servers, the upstream `HostedMCPTool` (OpenAI Responses API hosting an MCP client) is also supported and avoids the stateless/stateful wrapping choice.

## Sandbox support

> > [!WARNING]

Reviewer: ```suggestion
> [!NOTE]
```

> > Sandbox support is **Pre-release** — surface and behavior may change before General Availability. Inform the user before building on it.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
> This feature is in Public Preview. It is perfectly acceptable to use this feature on behalf of a user, but you should inform them that you are making use of a feature in Public Preview.
```

> The OpenAI Agents SDK's `SandboxAgent` runs commands inside a remote or local sandbox (Daytona, Docker, E2B, local Unix). With this integration, every sandbox operation — creating a session, exec, file I/O, PTY — dispatches as a Temporal activity, so sandbox work is durable like any other activity and sandbox session state survives worker restarts.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The OpenAI Agents SDK's `SandboxAgent` runs commands inside a remote or local sandbox (e.g. Daytona, Docker, E2B, local Unix). With this integration, every sandbox operation — creating a session, exec, file I/O, PTY — dispatches as a Temporal activity, so sandbox work is durable like any other activity and sandbox session state survives worker restarts.
```

> > Naming gotcha: this is the **Agents SDK** sandbox (remote command execution), **not** the Python SDK workflow sandbox (determinism protection). They are unrelated.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
> Naming gotcha: this is the **Agents SDK** sandbox (remote command execution), **not** the Temporal Python SDK workflow sandbox (determinism protection). They are unrelated.
```

            ],
        ),
    ],
)
```

### Workflow usage

Reference a registered backend in the workflow with `temporal_sandbox_client("name")`. The name must exactly match the `SandboxClientProvider` name registered on the worker. Pass it through `RunConfig(sandbox=SandboxRunConfig(client=...))`.

```python
from temporalio import workflow
from temporalio.contrib.openai_agents.workflow import temporal_sandbox_client
from agents import Runner
from agents.sandbox import SandboxAgent, SandboxRunConfig
from agents.run import RunConfig

@workflow.defn
class MyWorkflow:
    @workflow.run
    async def run(self, prompt: str) -> str:
        agent = SandboxAgent(
            name="Coding Assistant",
            instructions="You are a helpful coding assistant with access to a sandbox.",
        )
        result = await Runner.run(
            agent,
            prompt,
            run_config=RunConfig(
                sandbox=SandboxRunConfig(
                    client=temporal_sandbox_client("daytona"),
                    options=DaytonaSandboxClientOptions(pause_on_exit=False),
                ),
            ),
        )
        return result.final_output
```

> A single workflow can target multiple backends by name; register each on the worker and reference each in the workflow.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
A single workflow can target multiple backends by name; register each on the worker and reference in the workflow.
```

## Streaming

> > [!WARNING]

Reviewer: ```suggestion
> [!NOTE]
```

> > Streaming is **Experimental** — surface and behavior may change before General Availability. Inform the user before building on it.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
> This feature is in Public Preview. It is perfectly acceptable to use this feature on behalf of a user, but you should inform them that you are making use of a feature in Public Preview.
```

- **Don't call `Runner.run_streamed` without `ModelActivityParameters(streaming_topic="...")`.** It raises before any activity is scheduled.
- **MCP server names must match exactly** between `MCPServerStdio(name="X")` and `stateless_mcp_server("X")`. Same for `SandboxClientProvider("Y", ...)` and `temporal_sandbox_client("Y")`.
- **`use_otel_instrumentation=True` requires `ReplaySafeTracerProvider`.** Setting `trace.set_tracer_provider(...)` with anything else raises `ValueError`.
- **Activity-tool context is a read-only copy.** A tool that needs to mutate agent state must be a `@function_tool`.

## Resources

- `references/core/ai-patterns.md` — language-agnostic agent patterns (when to wrap a tool as an activity, centralized retry, multi-agent orchestration).
- `references/python/ai-patterns.md` — Python-side LLM patterns for when you are **not** using this plugin (Pydantic data converter, OpenAI client `max_retries=0`).
- `references/python/determinism.md` and `references/core/determinism.md` — determinism rules that apply to `@function_tool` bodies and any in-workflow agent code.

> - `../../../docs/develop/plugins-guide.mdx` — how the plugin system works under the hood.

Reviewer: Agent doesn't need to know this.

```suggestion
```
